Now that we have fixed our tests so they can also simulate running as an authenticated user we will
finally create a relation between the blog post and a user and this would be a one to many relationship
where one user can have many blog posts but obviously first we'll start with our migration.
So let's make sure the terminal is clear and we'll run the migration first to see a possible problem
that you will encounter when you will make changes like we are going to make in a second.
So we'll run peach bee artisan make migration to generate a migration for us so we can call it add user
to blog posts table.
Okay so we have our migration it figure out that we are going to modify the blog posts tables so that's
nice.
And now let's create a field that will relate to our user.
So you might remember that we will be adding an unsigned integer field so always remember that when
you are creating our foreign key inside.
Then my sequel database the field you are creating are key for the following key for needs to be of
the exact type that this foreign key is relating to.
So if that sounds complicated.
Let's put it in simple words the user I.D. column on the blog post needs to be of exactly the same type
as the idea column on the user users table.
So we have unsigned integer and we'll leave it like that and then you will see in a second what's a
problem with this approach.
Now let's are the foreign key.
So it'll be called the same as the field name.
So user I.D. and it references their I.D. column on user stable.
So we have this user stable already.
It was created initially with larval and now we should also implement that down the method to bring
back this change to the previous state.
Now you can drop a column and offering key So first we'll have to drop a column so we can use this drop
column and use the name of the column and there is also a method called drop for grain and you also
have to specify the name of the foreign key.
So it's the name of the foreign key is not exactly the same as the field name and the difference is
that larval generates the names for the foreign keys automatically.
And if you will go to the database to the comments table you can see that in structure so foreign key
is an index by default and you can see that the key name in the case of the comments table is comments
underscore blog posts I.D. index so it's not just the blog post I.D. so to tell LA of all that you want
to remove a foreign key that is created on this column you can just use an array notation.
And thanks to that it will know that it shouldn't delete a foreign key with this name but instead it
should find a foreign key that was created on this field and it will figure out the proper name of this
foreign key to delete it.
OK so this is clear so far.
Now let's see what will happen if we all run this migration.
And I will give you a hint.
Now since we are creating a column this is fine but then we are creating our foreign key and we already
have some data inside the blog post table.
So we do not provide a default value.
So there is no default user and this would be a problem.
So let's see BHP artisan migrate and we can see that there is integrity constraint violation.
And what that means is when you are the foreign key it is to make sure that your data is integral.
So it requires.
So you are adding the foreign key to make sure that everything that is inside the blog post table that
has a user I.D. is actually referencing our record inside our users table.
So since we haven't added default value to those records then they do not have a valid user I.D..
And if we want to add a foreign key for this particular field.
This makes my sequel fail.
So it just can't do that.
Now how we can work around this problem.
So first let's see what was executed.
So you can see that we actually do not have the migration that we have run inside the migration stables
so it failed.
And actually you haven't added this migration so we have to solve that first.
You can see the name is are the user to blog posts table but now let's see what has happened inside
the blog post so you can see that we actually have the user I.D. column but when you go to the structure
you can see that the foreign key wasn't created only the column was created.
So there are two ways we can solve this so let's first remove this remove this field from the blog posts
table so you can do that in peach be my admin by just selecting this field and clicking drop and confirming
with yes.
So we are just bringing back this change because the migration has failed.
Actually now we have two possible solutions to the problem with adding are foreign key to our table
that is actually existing and has some data already inside it.
It's very important that it has some data already.
So the first solution would be to make this column new level by chaining method called to low level.
And what will this do is all the existing records from this table will have the user I.D. set us no
which isn't perfect in our case because we would like to assume that all the blog posts have to have
a user assigned because they have to be authenticated to add a blog post.
So it's very inconvenient for us to add a new level field and then check each time if the blog post
has have an outer assigned or not.
But this will make it work.
So let's see now to apply this change first of course you need to save this migration file and then
run P2P artisan migrate you can see that we were successful so this was that user idea column and their
migration.
Sorry the foreign key was also added.
So there is the user I.D. now with the key symbol and you can see that here's our foreign key.
So let's now browse the data and you can see that we have this problem that older existing data have
user I.D. us no.
So will either have to assign it somehow either using a query or manually or Well we will have to check
in our application if blog posts have an outer or not.
Which would be quite cumbersome as it would be best to just assume that every blog post has to have
a user associated.
So since we are just developing our application and it's not in the production environment yet.
So in case of the production environments when you already have users and data you will probably use
this select solution so you will have to add some foreign key that'll be just new level.
But there is also another way we can do that when we are still developing.
But before I show you this we will have to fix this down method because I actually wrote it incorrectly.
The first thing is that we have to drop the foreign key first.
Only then column because we don't want to just work.
We can't just drop a column which has a key.
So first we are removing the foreign key.
Then a column and another thing is I.
I have used this and I who should have used that table which is being passed inside the closure.
Okay we have that fixed and now let's go back to another method we can use and there is a command called
peach bee artisan migrate refresh and what this will do is well it's quite complicated.
It will roll back all the migrations that we have and then run them again from in the order they were
created.
So this is a way of basically recreating your database which of course you should never do on your production
environments.
So let's see what will happen now.
The error we are seeing right here in the terminal that the blob text column type content cannot have
a default value is because we have made this change specifically for the Eskil light which required
the default value and we have this obscure light database used for our tests.
So to actually solve this problem we can use a little hack so we can read an environment variable using
the end function and the environment variable is the D.B. connection so if you check the database configuration
inside the config file database HP you can see that we have many connections specified so this is our
my sequel connection.
The main one which we use for the up and there is also Eskew a light testing and the default db connection
is my askew URL so this way we can verify it here.
We don't even actually need this variable so we can add an if statement.
So if db connection equals Askew a light testing will add this field with default value.
Other ways we will add it without a default value so we can even copy that and remove this default.
So let's make sure we do not have any other migrations which has a field of type text and up default
value provided.
So we have profiles we have comments
and we can maybe do the same for our comments table.
So let's do that immediately to save us from any further trouble.
You can see that those are even called the same so this shouldn't be a problem.
OK.
We have fixed the problem now.
Let's clear the terminal and rerun our command again.
So this was peach bee artisan migrate refresh but maybe let's do one more thing.
So I've said that this low level should be used when we actually work with existing database with existing
data.
And as I've said then migrate to refresh will remove all the data from the database because we will
actually recreate it.
So we do not need a new level here or maybe I will just keep it as a comment out line so you can just
look it up for the reference but will remove this new level from the actual column.
Okay now let's finally refresh the database and you can see that all the migrations were run correctly
so first it rolled back everything and then run again all the migrations.
So now let's check the database and you can see that we have all the tables.
They're all empty but now the structure is as we want that as we need that.
Now the problem is that we do not have any blog posts and we also do not have any users that we have
created previously.
But you shouldn't worry about that because there is also a way in lot of URL which lets you load all
the users using a single command.
It's called database seeding and you will see how to do that in the next lecture.